Colossians 119, for in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell.
The stage was set and the stakes could not be much higher.
Ground Zero was a city by the name of Nice or Nicaea, which is located in modern day Turkey.
The year was 325 A.D.
And the presiding emperor was a man by the name of Constantine.
There was a great turmoil that was threatening to undo the empire, and it was over the deity of Jesus Christ.
Whether he was uncreated and eternal, or quite frankly, whether he was not.
Whether Jesus Christ is truly Lord overall, or not actually Lord at all.
By this point in the 4th century, Constantine, being on the throne, had made it to where Christianity was finally afforded the imperial protection from centuries of ruthless persecution that the church had endured.
The bishops who had endured that ruthless persecution now gathered together and they bore in their bodies the marks of Jesus Christ.
Some were lame, some were blind,
Physically within them, the marks of persecution and the value of Jesus Christ mingled together into a very vivid display.
Little did they realize, however, that this war for truth, this war for righteousness was not over.
It was only just beginning.
And so it continues even in our day, but Constantine called forth the infamous Council of Nicaea in AD 325,
to settle a very important theological dispute that has profound implications on your life and mind in the church through the ages.
On one side of the ring was a man by the name of Athanasius.
Athanasius was still a very young man, a delicate serving as a deacon at the council under Alexander, who was the Bishop of Alexandria.
Alexander had boldly defended the truth, standing when
even others may not have stood.
And by this point, Alexander was a much older, more established, very well known and respected man.
Athanasius served and learned under his counsel and with him, Athanasius held Jesus Christ as the eternal God equal to the Father.
Not of a similar substance, but the fighting words were this of the same divine nature and of the same substance.
On the other side of the ring was a man by the name of Arias.
Arias tall that Jesus was a creation of God, the chief creation of God, indicating that he had a beginning, which would indicate that there was a time in which he did not exist as God.
And he championed Jesus as the first and greatest of all of God's creations.
And rather than being a promotion, we understand that this was a despicable demotion.
He took his false teaching and he coined it together in very catchy phrases and songs as it would be sung through the streets and resonate into the hearts of many women, boys and girls.
From this council, from this meeting came one of the most widely used and respected creeds in all of Christendom called the Nicene Creed, which we have been confessing,
every December.
It concisely summarizes some of the most fundamental doctrines that we hold most dear from Scripture.
Later, the Council of Constantinople in 381 AD, as well as others, would update this creed into the form that we now use today and have used ever since.
Even after the Nicene Creed
The Athanasian Creed would be codified, not because Athanasian wrote it, but because it represented exactly what he taught, which is exactly as it pertains to this matter, whether scriptures teach it, teach it, and what he gave his life articulating and defending.
Athanasius would secede Alexander as the bishop of Alexandria
And he would continue to stand even when it seemed that no one else was standing.
He would spend decades of his life being exiled numerous times back and forth, back and forth at the hands of one emperor after the other, after one emperor would promote areas.
And this false doctrine in exile him and then the next would bring him back.
He suffered profound persecution, death attempts,
And the phrase that came out of Athanasius's life translated in English is this short phrase against the world.
Here is a man who was willing to stand against the entire world for the sake of the truth if that is what it meant.
And yet he wouldn't be the only man, there would be plenty of others.
In this council, as I've mentioned briefly before,
also has a very interesting legend attached to it.
There was another bishop, children, if you'll listen to me, at this council of Nicaea by the name of Nicholas.
As a bishop, his name would have been St. Nicholas.
This man had a very enriched reputation for giving generous gifts to those who were in need, to the poor and to the sick.
And this legend has a,
this St. Nicholas would later devolve into the idea of St. Nick or Santa Claus, which is an entirely different subject and character altogether.
But supposedly, the legend asserts that St. Nick had had enough of this talk from Arius, and right there at the Council of Nicaea, he slugged Jolly Old St. Nick himself, slugged the heretic,
areas right there in the face.
You say, did that actually happen?
We don't know for sure, but we do know that afterwards he was defrost of his clerical vestments and he was punished for doing something.
I asked my dear friend, our friend, Pastor John Huffman, do you think it really happened?
And he said, I do.
And I asked my wife, do you think it really happened?
And she said, well, John Huffman said it happened, so it happened.
John Calvin put it this way, even a dog barks when he sees this master being attacked.
And so there you have the deity of Jesus Christ under attack.
And it was nothing new because from the promise of the seed of the woman in Genesis 3, there has been a war against Christmas and the incarnation and the heart of which is the deity of Jesus Christ.
that war would continue in the line of Christ would become dangerously thin in the Old Testament to Herod, as we read earlier, seeking to put him and all young children to death.
And even today, when we cannot, as a culture, defeat the deity of Christ, what we do is what Arias did, we attempt to dilute the deity of Christ and water it down into a more soft, comfortable Savior.
a one who is more at our beck and call and one with whom we are more comfortable with putting up with in our life.
Nothing is more crucial than knowing and loving Jesus Christ, the uncreated creator of all things, the hope of our redemption who for us men and for our salvation.
And there is no greater question in all of eternity than the question who was this babe in Bethlehem.
The title of my sermon, taken right out of the Nicene Creed, is God of God, light of light.
Look with me, and you're worship God, as we find the text which would be agreed, a concise summary of the Christian faith, not Scripture itself, certainly not, but a summary we believe and have as a church for a very long time about what we believe the Bible to mean by what it says.
And every word of this creed seems aimed right at the chest of Arias and all who would follow in his wake.
A Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons, the many practical so-called Christians today, cults of every sore.
You notice with me, the creed is framed around the apostles' creed.
It sounds very similar walking through a confession of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit of the church and salvation in the resurrection.
And it begins with what we call theology proper.
It begins with an understanding of God.
I believe, I confess, I will stake my entire life on the fact that there is one God.
It's the most basic and fundamental belief of all of Christianity.
It's the doctrine of monotheism.
Deuteronomy 6.4 says there is only one God.
We will not pretend as if our God, the only God is on par with other fictitious gods.
There is only one God and all of them, all the rest of them are illusions.
I believe in one God and he begins, the creed begins with the father.
The father who on one hand is an intimate presence to his children, loving and shepherding them so tenderly in his grace.
While the creek continues at the same time, he is the maker of heaven and earth.
Everything you see, everything that you can see, visible and invisible of all things, and that includes everything.
He made it all.
He is almighty and he is maker.
The creek continues, and in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God
He is the only begotten son of God, the second person of the Trinity, one God in three persons, and Jesus was begotten of the Father before all worlds.
He's God's only son, John 3, 16 says.
And he's not a son, and the firstborn son, in the sense that there were other sons or that he was once not a son.
It refers to his preeminent.
He is preeminent.
above and beyond all things, just as the firstborn would experience.
He's with the father of one substance, he is God, truly God, truly man.
The creed continues by whom all things were made, just as Colossians asserts, everything was made by and in for Christ, who for us men and for our salvation, he came down from heaven, he condescended and was incarnate,
taking on flesh by the Holy Spirit of the Virgin Mary, bypassing the line of Joseph, keeping pureth to the Holy Spirit, this supernatural birth, a man unlike other men.
It was made man and was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate.
The exact name is mentioned, the only name other than God's name, because this was a historical event rooted in time and in history.
And with an eye to Easter, we confess, he suffered and was buried and the third day he was.
Rose again, according to the Scriptures and he ascended into heaven and he is seated.
He is seated in session at the right hand of the Father and he shall come again with glory.
This is the second advent to judge both the living and the dead, whose kingdom neither in time nor in space
shall have no end.
He is of God and light, and he is God and light.
He is very God, of very God.
Ladies and gentlemen, Jesus Christ.
His kingdom will endure forever.
He is preeminent above all things.
The Greek continues of the spirit.
as the Lord and giver of life, not in IH, but He, a person, the third person who proceeds from the Father and the Son.
Boy, those are fighting words for another day, those words and the Son who created a massive controversy in the church, and here they are.
Who would the Father and the Son together is worshiped and glorified, who spoke by the prophets?
So just as Jesus is the only begotten of the Father, so the Son and the Spirit proceeding from the Father, and then the Spirit speaking through the prophets and inspiring Scripture, which we submit our last two today.
The Greek continues of one holy Catholic Church, speaking not of the Roman Catholic Church, but all believers of all ages who are truly in Christ, wherever they're found.
They're apostolic, it's an apostolic church, meaning that we are banking our lives and the foundation on what the apostles told in the New Testament.
We're acknowledging one baptism, and it's in the name of our triune God, Matthew 28, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
There is no other watery gate through which to enter his kingdom.
For the remission of sins, and I look for the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come, amen.
And we do say amen because it's a hearty acknowledgement in the Scriptures that we are verbally affirming that this is true and we are standing on it and we are banking our entire eternity on it.
The later Athanasian Creed would assert this, the unity and Trinity and the Trinity and unity is to be worshiped.
He therefore, that will be saved, must thus think of the Trinity.
Furthermore, it is necessary to everlasting salvation that he also believe rightly the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ.
For the right faith is that we believe and confess that our Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is God and man, God of the substance of the Father, begotten before the worlds and man of the substance of his mother, born in the world.
So Jesus is one person in two natures.
Two natures that church has learned the hard way not to divide.
Two natures not to blend and mingle together.
Two natures united in one person is God and man in Jesus Christ.
And it's good God fearing Bible believing students.
We appreciate what has come before us.
But what matters most to us is what do the scriptures say?
And I'm glad you asked because I want to encourage you to turn in your Bible to 1 Timothy chapter three, verse 16, so that I can show you exactly what the scriptures say.
This is a text that I have had in my back pocket for at least two or three years or more that I have wanted to preach on Christmas
So we'll just consider this Merry Christmas to me if no one else, because I have been waiting for several years for this.
1 Timothy chapter 3, 16 is another concise summary of the Christian faith.
This one inscribed and inspired in the scriptures and in the anthem of eternity.
As we turn to this book, we understand that
First Timothy was written by the Apostle Paul.
And the Apostle Paul is writing to his trusted son in the faith, Timothy, likely around 62 to 64 AD.
We're pouncing in the middle of a book and in the middle of a context, and we have to understand that after the book of Acts, Paul seems to have been released from his first Roman imprisonment, and he began to revisit many of the cities from his missionary journeys,
of one city being Ephesus.
Hence, we have a book in our Bibles named Ephesians.
Paul goes on to Macedonia, it seems, as he leaves young Timothy in Ephesus.
And Timothy is dedicating that season of his life to dealing with false teachers and restoring order in the midst of error and chaos and confusion.
Paul would later write
to Timothy to help him and struck church members.
If you look with me in chapter three, verses 14 and 15, he writes purposefully to teach them how they are to behave, to conduct themselves in the church of the living God.
Did you know that you don't just get to behave however you want to behave in God's church?
And so he lays out what the church should look like, what it stands for, what it's against, and what it is to do.
First Timothy would second Timothy along with Titus together.
We form a trilogy known as the pastoral epistles.
They were written to men who are pastoring the church, but they were intended for the entire church at large.
As we come to verse 16 on the heels of the church of the living God, a pillar and a buttress of the truth, we now come to the underlying foundation of their church and ours, of the one church.
And in chapter four, right after this verse, Paul will proceed and he will warn that demons will threaten to come and undo this confession and this ordering of the church, all of hell,
will come against you and us with false teachings, theory and consciences and confusing people.
This verse, 1 Timothy 3, 16, in many ways is very much like the famous Philippians 2, 5 through 11 passage.
It's even similar if you wanna mark it down and look at it later to 2 Timothy 2, verses 11 through 13.
And this verse that we come to in 1 Timothy 3, 16,
It's so poetic.
It's so rhythmic.
It's so parallel.
We find tightly compounded phrases.
We find beautiful symmetry and uniformity of the six verbs and the six nouns.
One building upon another and you'll notice how ever expansive and increasingly outward it turns out to be.
Many scholars have concluded that verse 16 was actually an early church hymn that would have been sung among the people of God.
Because of the way in the Greek, it's laid out with such a beautiful contrast, parallel, and rhythm.
Even if it weren't an early church hymn, at the very least, most likely it had to have been an early creed.
a simple summary of the Christian faith that circulated around the church.
And it's one that this church needed to be reminded of, and it's one that our church must always stand on.
There's much speculation about the arrangement of this verse.
Does Paul lay this out in three three phrases of two, or is it two trilogies divided right in half?
or any number of others, but I'll tell you one thing that seems clear.
This verse would have landed in a city by the name of Ephesus, a pagan epicenter of the early world.
And when Paul was earlier in Ephesus, this same city, we read in Acts 19, 28 that the people were crying out their own creed.
In the city square, they cried out, great is Artemis or Diana of the Ephesians.
And Paul comes back with a punch against everything that statement stood for.
And he proclaimed that there is one God of heaven and earth, which the church commonly confesses.
Did you know that throughout the Bible, from Deuteronomy six, throughout the New Testament, we see creedal type statements.
Beautiful, simple summaries of the faith we find in Romans 10 and 9, Philippians 2, 11.
1 Corinthians chapter 12, the most fundamental creed in all of the Bible is this one.
Jesus is Lord.
And 1 Corinthians says that no man can say that except by the Holy Spirit.
That phrase is used throughout the New Testament
And as error would increase, the church would respond with greater, more nuanced truth to confront it.
The church would continue to face error, rot from the inside out, and as they would be confronted with false doctrine, we would also, as a church, confess the apostles' creed, the creed of Calcedon, and certainly others.
If you'll look with me in 1 Timothy 3, 16, before we get
into the individual words and phrases, you'll notice that there's a major contrast.
On one hand you have the flesh and on the other is the spirit.
On one hand you have the angels and the other hand you have the nations of men.
On one hand you have the world and then glory or heaven and then earth.
And we move
So beautifully from earthly flesh to heavenly spirit and angels, back down to lower nations and world and back up to a higher glory.
It's a beautiful verse.
It's a Christmas verse that has an eye all the way to Easter Resurrection Sunday.
I want you to note with me this morning, seven timely Christmas truths.
Number one, look with me in verse 16 at
First of all, the mystery, the mystery.
Paul begins with the words we confess.
It could read a common confession.
The word literally means to say the same thing as, together we are asserting this truth.
The Orthodox, the unanimous conviction of all believers, others translated this way without controversy.
The word literally means to be undeniable, to be without question assuredly.
There might be plenty of things in the Bible that are up for the debate of genuine believers, but let's be clear, this is not one of them.
Assuredly, undeniably, without question.
Listen, if you can throw any statement out there, even a phrase,
that would be without controversy among Christians.
Ladies and gentlemen, you have accomplished a great feat because we will disagree over anything and everything, but we want about this.
And here is what's so great.
He says, great indeed.
Or the King James simply says, great.
It's the mystery of godliness.
This word mystery was just used in verse nine that deacons are to hold to the mystery of the faith.
Now understand this word mystery does not refer to some secret knowledge as the Gnostics would teach that were available only to an elite few.
This did not refer to some mystical experience.
This did not refer to some secret encoding
entrenched into the Bible that only very smart people can figure out.
The word mystery throughout the Bible refers to that which once particularly in the Old Testament was foreshadowed dimly.
There were hints but not crystal clear clarity.
We would see types, we would see shadows, we would see prophecies.
But now the mystery is that which has been fully revealed.
in the New Testament for those who would be humble enough to receive it at God's hand.
He says, the mystery of godliness is everything that conforms to the character and nature of God.
The word godliness is often used of practical piety as we live out our Christian lives and holiness.
But in verse 16, as we'll see this word godliness, this mystery of godliness,
is the summary of who God is and the supreme expression of all of his character and nature.
I want you to see, secondly, as we continue in verse 16, look at your Bible as we move from number one, the mystery to number two, the flesh.
The Bible says, who was manifested in the flesh?
Now the word there is actually who?
Some take it to be God.
God would certainly be the nearest, what we would call antecedent, the nearest reference to that pronoun who.
But there is no question who it is, the who refers to.
Some believe maybe Paul took an early creed and he just left off the word.
Maybe it was to maintain the symmetry of wording in each phrase beginning very similarly with that same word.
There is no question who he is.
There is only one who sums up the mystery of godliness and who was manifested in the flesh.
Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you Jesus Christ.
He was manifested in the flesh.
It does not mean that he was brought into existence.
It does not mean that he was created.
It means that he was made visible.
Jesus Christ, John eight, as well as 17 and others,
teach us that he was preexisting even before the incarnation.
But we see glimpses of him all throughout the Old Testament.
But he made the invisible God visible, the Bible says.
He was manifested in the flesh, what simply reminds us of his humanity, his humanness.
He's the living eternal God revealed in human flesh.
Wrap your mind around that for a second.
Romans 1, 3 says that Jesus was descended from David in the flesh.
This in and of itself is what we refer to as the incarnation, which means in flesh, in me, to become human as we know physical humanity.
Manifested in the flesh, what is so striking
about this is that when man needed redemption, I want you to understand that God then did not sin his well wishes.
When man needed redemption, God did not sin a sweet little thoughtful card.
When man needed redemption, God did not sin cash from afar.
When man needed redemption, God sin his own dear son.
And God essentially said, this is a job that I will have to do and will do myself.
And a touch me, fill me your self form.
Children, the Bible says, and the word became what?
Flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only son from the Father, full of grace and truth.
John 518 says that Jesus was making himself equal with God, which is the very fact that God Him crucified.
Whoever has seen the father has seen me, Jesus said, Paul says he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.
Friends, it is so difficult for us because this text has become so familiar to us.
to understand the profundity, the shock, even the scandal that God would become man, that God would become man.
Many in this day and in our day wrongly believe that material creation in and of itself is sinful.
When God created the world and everything in it, he called it what?
Good.
Certainly it can be used for evil and it bears the curse of sin in a fallen world, but material creation in and of itself was created by God as good.
Even at best, we must admit that for God and his sovereignty and holiness to stoop this low from the wonders of glory to the condescension of man, to take on humanity,
and man's nature is simply without comparison.
We can't even begin to fathom what it would be like if you were to condescend overnight and become a cockroach.
And yet that would not even begin to do the justice of something of the Lord of glory and those who would hear this and how it would fall on their ears.
And even looking ahead to Monday, Thursday,
Not only would he become man, but he would also wash the feet of men.
And then he would die for the sins of men.
Friends, as we sing about this at Christmas, I love the symmetry, the balance of our songs.
We, when we sing, we sing horizontally.
We take in the sights, we take in the smells,
We sing hymns like a way and a manger.
We three kings of Orient.
We remember the historical context that this really took place in time and in history.
And yet at the same time, we not only sing horizontally, but we also sing vertically of the theology.
We sing hymns like heart, the herald angels sing because we're piercing beneath the veil and we're seeing what really is going on here.
Christ by highest heaven adored, Christ the everlasting Lord, laid in time, behold him come, offspring of a virgin's womb.
Gold star for whoever can say the next line, veiled in flesh, the Godhead sea, hell thy incarnate deity.
This is the very heartbeat
of the incarnation.
The word Hark itself means to pay close attention to listen up God and flesh.
If you'll turn with me in 1 John chapter 4, I want you to notice that this was a war within the early church fighting against early false teaching.
1 John chapter 4 verse 2.
is very, very clear about this matter that he was manifested in the flesh.
By this, you know the spirit of God.
And here's the testing point.
Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in what?
The flesh is from God.
Isaiah seven tells us how he would come in the flesh.
She would come
and he would be born through the Virgin.
Now, as we read earlier, this passage in Isaiah 7 is hotly contested, but I think it's clear that there was an immediate fulfillment.
There was an enemy warring against God's people, and A has needed some sign of assurance, which he was too embarrassed to ashamed to ask for, that God's covenant promises would stand firm.
And in some sense of which is debated,
This prophecy, at least partially, would have had some sort of fulfillment that would make sense to them, I believe.
But it would only have full fulfillment of a true virgin and a true son.
As Matthew 1, 22 says, behold, the virgins shall conceive and bear a son and they shall call his name Emmanuel.
And Matthew even gives us commentary, which means God with us.
I love how Spurgeon put it in the Advent God that we're reading this year.
Well did the apostles say, without controversy is the mystery of godliness.
God was manifested in the flesh.
He was born at Bethlehem and he is God and God with us.
Listen, God, there lies the majesty.
God with us, there lies the mercy.
God therein is glory.
God with us therein is grace.
Spurgeon says, God alone might well strike us with terror, but God with us inspires us with hope and confidence.
He is God with us.
And even though He is now ascended to the Father, the Great Commission is very clear as other passages in Scripture that He is with us through the Holy Spirit and He will never leave us or forsake us as His covenant children.
Hebrews says, He is the radiance of the glory of God.
which we'll see next and the exact imprint of his nature.
And he upholds the universe by the word of his power.
After making purification for his sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs.
Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to know what God is like?
Look to the sun.
Do you ever look at a boy and you say, there is no mistaken who that boy belongs to?
Just look to that boy's daddy.
Jesus is the perfect and the full expression and presence and nature and substance of the Godhead.
And yet in a lesser difference sense, we now too are to reflect His image as children of God in Jesus Christ.
You say, oh, this is so thrilling and lofty, but I'm just not sure that it's relatable.
Have you ever went through something and you thought, nobody understands, nobody can relate?
Do you understand that almost everybody I talk to says or thinks the same thing?
You can't understand.
You haven't been through it and you can't relate.
And yet Jesus Christ,
In his incarnation, Hebrews says, is able to sympathize with us in all of our weaknesses, becoming like us in every regard, except for he was without sin.
Next and more quickly, I want you to see number three, turn back with me, if you will, in your Bible in 1 Timothy 3, 16.
Moving more quickly from the mystery and the flesh.
I want you to see thirdly the spirit.
A piling one phrase upon another.
Verse 16 says that he was vindicated or it could read he was justified by the spirit.
The word justify means to declare righteous.
On one hand, Jesus was sinless and he was declared righteous in his own spirit.
It could refer as well to the fact that he was vindicated in the spiritual realm.
I think more likely what the text may be teaching is that he was vindicated and the word by thee is used instrumentally of the Holy Spirit.
More likely, I think, is that the Holy Spirit vindicated or justified Jesus, declaring Him, acknowledging Him, divinely, for who He was.
Listen, ladies and gentlemen, as you see this babe wrapped in flesh, don't you forget also, don't you get lost in His humanity, lest you forget that He was vindicated by the Spirit.
I believe with Calvin that this is an open acknowledgement of the power and presence of God, that he emptied himself taking flesh upon himself, but even in his weakness, he was declared by the Holy Spirit to be the Son of God.
And we have witnesses both on earth and in heaven.
You have to do something with him.
Number four,
We see next, moving from the Spirit, we see fourthly the angels.
Interestingly, he was also seen by angels.
The word seeing means to see or to visit, to attend to.
Some believe it refers to the fact in Hebrews 1-6 that angels actually worshiped him.
Others believe in light of Colossians 2-15 that it means
that Jesus triumph over evil angels.
I think more likely it refers to the divine approval on his life as we see framing the entire life of Jesus, the ministry of angels.
Jesus' entire life was surrounded by angels.
Listen to me, asserting the birth of his forerunner, John the Baptist,
was an angel.
Announcing his birth to Mary was an angel.
Announcing his birth to Joseph and then coming back again, telling him to take Jesus and Mary to Egypt, we find angels.
Turn with me to where we have to go.
Turn with me in your Bible to Luke chapter two, where we find in Luke chapter two that when
The birth of Jesus would be announced and it would come not in the palaces, but in the fields to shepherds.
And that announcement would come through the means of angels.
In Luke chapter two, verse nine, and an angel of the Lord appeared to them.
And the glory of the Lord's shown all around them.
And they were filled with great fear.
I'm going to be honest, I cannot read this without having the voice of Charlie Brown in my background.
And the angel said to them, fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people.
For unto you is born this day in the city of David, a savior who is Christ the Lord.
And this will be a sign for you.
You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger.
And suddenly there was with the angel, a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest.
And on earth peace, and the peace, don't cut it off your Christmas card, is among those with whom he is pleased.
And it's announced by angels.
Later, Jesus would walk into the greatest trials
of the beginning of his ministry, a desert where he would be tempted by the devil.
And at the end of it, he would be strengthened by angels.
Jesus will later, he teaches, send his angels to separate the evil from the righteous.
And one day he will come with the angels and the glory of his father to judge the world and gather his children.
And when Jesus rose from the dead, a great earthquake
appeared and angels rolled back in the stone and then appeared to Mary.
And then when Jesus ascended to the Father, it was an angelic witness, both of his ascending and of his future return in glory.
He had the divine approval of God on every aspect of his life and ministry.
Jesus was seen by angels.
And yet, turn with me in your Bible to one peculiar little verse tucked away in 1 Peter chapter 1.
There was one thing even having for the entirety of his earthly life, having left the company of angels and yet attended to by them, witnessed to by them, having
been seen by them.
And yet there's one thing that even angels, they even angels long to look.
First Peter chapter one, verse two refers again to angels referring, or rather first Peter one 10 refers to this salvation.
And then we see following in first Peter one and the things speaking of salvation that it
have now been announced to you through those who preach, here it is, the good news to you by the Holy Spirit.
Sin from heaven, the gospel of Jesus Christ, things into which angels long to look.
This matter that Holy God would reconcile himself to sinful man through the person and work of Jesus Christ is a matter
that you might take for granted, but even the angels, long to look, scratching their head at the wonder of God.
Ephesians 3-10 says that the manifold wisdom of God is made known through the church to the heavenly rulers in the cosmic places.
And I believe we finally stumble upon something that makes even angels scratch their head.
Look with me in 1 Timothy 3, 16.
Fifth, I want you to see the nations reaching even beyond.
The Bible says he was proclaimed among the nations or among the Gentiles.
It means he was heralded.
He was proclaimed.
He was preached.
globally.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a local phenomenon.
The testimony of Jesus Christ echoed throughout the ends of the entire known world.
This was not a localized shakeup that made the headlines thinking that it was some massive incident only to get wise to in whatever was the next important part of the newsfeed.
No, ladies and gentlemen, he was proclaimed among the nations and he is still proclaimed among the nations.
He is deserving of all glory because he has upended all of human history from the formation of Christendom, as we know it, to splitting our entire calendar into dominating every aspect
of all of our human existence, he was proclaimed among the nations.
Starting in Jerusalem and continuing throughout the entire world, Romans 1 says, the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations.
He took the world by storm and he is the highest force in all of heaven to be reckoned with.
Finally, number six, he was not only proclaimed among the nations, look with me as well in verse 16, he was believed on in the world.
And maybe you attempt to dismiss the incarnation or the fact that he was seen among angels or the fact that he was proclaimed among the nations.
But what about the truth that he was believed on in the world, beginning at Pentecost with 3,000?
Thousands more immediately afterwards.
The gospel would make its way all the way through every aspect of society, men and women, boys and girls.
The elite status of those who would be in Caesar's household to the loadliest of beggars and shepherds.
A young and old Jew and Gentile, all alike, not only
heard the heralding of this message.
Listen to me, they believed on Him in the world and throughout the world.
It's not just that in this phenomenon, they are acknowledging the raw and the right doctrinal facts.
The word means believing they have put all of their faith and their trust in Him as Lord and Savior.
They are looking to Him
As the priceless treasure of all creation, they have sold everything they have to follow him, to love him, to look to him and to long for him.
And this was happening all over the entire world.
And this continues to happen all over the entire world.
This message cannot be dismissed.
And every time you try to put this fire out, all you do is pour gas on it and make a larger one.
Jesus Christ is praised throughout the entire world because he is worthy of the worship of all people in all places.
And finally, number seven, if you'll look with me at the last phrase, we read the end of the story, which still is only the beginning.
He was taken up or received up in glory.
with an eye to Easter, not only would it be raised bodily from the grave, but turn with me to one final passage, Acts chapter 1.
Turn with me to Acts chapter 1, where again in verse 10, we find the angelic host.
And quite literally, we see the history where he was taken up in glory, Acts chapter 1, verse 10, using similar language says he was lifted up.
At the end of his resurrection, his 40 days and 49th on this earth, and a cloud took him out of their sight.
And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold two men stood by them in white robes and said, men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven?
This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven,
will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven.
He came for the first time in a lowly manger, riding on a donkey crucified to a tree, he came in humiliation.
But the Advent will continue as he comes again.
Revelation 19, 11 says, riding on a white stallion.
He will crush his enemies.
He will save his children.
He will right every wrong and he will rule the nations with us glory with truth and grace.
And when he comes, he comes to make his blessings flow far as the curse is found to restore all of creation under his righteous rule.
The footnotes in the Geneva Bible put it this way.
It teaches us the greatest matter that may be thought of, that God has to become visible in the person of Christ by taking our nature upon him, whose majesty notwithstanding and so great weakness was manifested in many ways.
And so much that the sight of it pierced the very angels.
And to conclude he being preached unto the Gentiles was received of them.
And it's now placed above in glory unspeakable.
The power of the Godhead showed itself so marvelously and that weak flesh of Christ that though he were a weak man, yet all the world knows he was and is God.
Another passage, another pastor summarizes this passage.
He says in six short stanzas of 1 Timothy 3 16, this hymn summarizes the gospel and it's this.
God became man, died for our sins, triumphed over death, was honored by angels and feared by demons, ascended into heaven.
The message was preached all over the world and many believed and were saved in the heart of our mission now is to proclaim it to the entire world.
He who was rich for our sake became poor.
so that in doing he would make many rich.
As we sing, Jesus was born that man no more may die.
Born as a man to represent men for us men and yet being God, because he would satisfy as the only all-sufficient savior, the wrath of God,
that only God can bear for my sins and yours and all who repent and believe the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Friends, what we see here practically demonstrated is a savior because we are sinners.
Would you run to him this morning?
Would he do a work of cleaning your heart and your house and submitting all of it to his lordship and glory?
Do you love him?
What we have here, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a Savior, we also have a Supper.
And in the Supper, we look to and celebrate the Savior.
As we come this morning to contemplate this message, what we are recalling in the Supper is our Savior.
And the simple truth is that the life of Jesus Christ fulfilled the righteousness of God.
Before he died, he was born because he would live in full obedience.
Just as Adam experienced the curse, Jesus would obey the law.
His death would satisfy the wrath of God for all of our sin and shame and his resurrection would display the power of God.
And so that we too would be raised in his likeness.
Would you bow your head with me?
With a heart of reflection and wonder?
If baptism is something like the wedding, I believe communion is something like the anniversary.
We come together to remember the body and blood of Jesus, which is being represented for us to remember.
And yet we come together as well to receive the body and blood of Jesus Christ presented for us
to participate in experiencing his presence, being united further to him, acknowledging brothers and sisters in Christ that we are one and there is to be no divisions between us as a church.
We are slaying our sin.
We are submitting ourselves and pledging allegiance to his rule.
We are offering up a witness to this world.
We are experienced the assurance of His pardon and we are being strengthened for His mission.
But more fundamentally than anything we do in the Lord's Supper is the work that God is doing to nurture and strengthen, to assure and to show His pardoning grace to His children.
I want to ask you as we reflect this morning, what in your life right now does God reveal
that you need to put to death, mortify as a Puritan saying, and are you believing and trusting Jesus Christ?
Is ever sinful and imperfect as your life can be?
Is he the one to whom you look?
Do you need him this morning?
I remember backward what he did
fulfilling all of those sacrifices, renew upward as you look to Him, reflect inward to ensure that we're seeking to glorify Him and enjoy Him forever.
Reach around so that we are one together with those in the church and then we rejoice.
Let's pray together.
Father, we come before you, the glory of heaven.
who is stooped so low to love sinners such as us and to show all of your covenant promises are sure and that you are with us through this tangible sign.
Father, we take this bread, we take this cup before you and we ask for your blessing, your sanctifying presence as we give thanksgiving to you.
And we pray that we would feast on you, and we pray that you would do a wonderful work of grace within us.
We thank you for reconciling us to yourself, and we pray that you would unite us more to you through this time.
We confess you as Lord, and we love it so.
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.